So once again, I've got a version,
a fork of this notebook,
which you can find by clicking on the one
fork at the top to find solutions
here with my solutions and
again your mileage may vary.
[COUGH] Okay, so
we've got this write message function,
which takes in three different arguments.
And the idea is that we want
some functions that we can use,
sort of like when you add
a signature to your email,
or we wanna be able to lock
in some of these values.
So that we can write lots of
messages from the same person or
write lots of messages
with the same signature.
So let's start out with sign message,
we saw that one takes in
the message in the salutation.
And returns the full
application of write message.
So we can use that to write
these friendly notes.
And similarly in the next
exercise which we had to fill in,
we're going to take in
a salutation sign message with,
we're gonna define a new function which
is going to take in the message itself.
And the name of the person
who it's coming from, and
is going to return the call to that
write message with all three arguments.
So now we can create our own functions
like write business memo, by locking in
a very professional salutation like
best or best wishes or thinks period.
Or whatever we want to make a very
professional business memo writer,
which then we can use for
all of our employees to sound
very professional in their
business messages, for example.
These examples again are a little bit
contrived for our educational purposes but
hopefully this goes to show how now I
don't have to keep passing in that middle
argument.
I can just use my locked in version that
I've got with this right business memo and
then similarly we have this
mix signature function Which
is gonna take your preferred
salutation and your name.
And it's gonna give you your very own
little function which you can then use to
sign all of your messages with
that salutation and name.
So it has to return a function that takes
a single argument just the message text
itself.
And then is going to allow us
to write that message with all
three of those arguments
again remembering those first
two from the scope of the outer
function makes signature.
So now we can maybe if we're William
Shakespeare trying to write a bunch of
love letters and sonnets and things,
we can make a signature with some very
fancy design of a more salutation.
And use that to write all the love letters
and sonnets and whatever that we want.
Questions so far?
Okay, all right, let's press on.
How about currying this quote function?
Okay, so we've got our quote function,
it takes three arguments.
There's a bunch of very grumpy programmers
that we're using it to quote, but
this look how long this is so
much repetition, so much repetition.
So, the curried quote function,
we could actually get real fancy and
use nested arrow functions here.
You don't necessarily need to if you
have nested function declarations,
that's also totally fine.
But arrow functions are really handy for
this because they allow us
to take in a single value.
And then return another arrow function,
which takes in another
value the next argument in our
original multi argument function.
And then returns another function,
which is going to take in the third value,
the third argument for
our original function.
And finally, we've got all three.
Finally we can call the quote
function with all three of those.
So what we've done is, we've taken
a three argument function, quote,
name year and text, and
turned it into this series.
If you will,
of successive single argument functions.
So now we can create
a quote crack function, for
example, where we pass in
the first argument as a name.
And we could do that for
several other of these people that
we're quoting here Or
we could take one of these.
Functions that has locked in
the name like quote Dykstra and
then apply it on the next argument to
lock in that second argument as well.
So now we're gonna be quoting
Dykstra in 1975, particularly.
And so what we end up with is a more
simplified version of our original code.
Where we don't have to repeat ourselves
anymore we can make functions like quote,
extra 75 that we can call again and
again and
again instead of having to pass in
extra 1975 extra 1975 every time.
So, the idea here and again this is
like a very kind of simplistic example.
The idea here is that through currying
by breaking down the single argument
functions.
We can decide when we want to partially
apply some of the arguments, excuse
me partially apply the multi argument
function to lock in some of the arguments.
So that we can get a reusable function.
So we don't have to be passing those
complex values around all the time.
And what's gonna feel a little bit weird
about this is thanks to the way that
we've written this kind of name goes
to a function that takes year goes to
a function that takes text.
Is that we end up calling these functions
with successive pairs of parentheses here.
So like in our first example We've got
a syntax that might feel a little bit
strange for JavaScript.
We've got our function being
applied to the first argument.
Then we're immediately using more
parentheses to apply it, the resulting
function to the next argument, then we're
immediately using more parentheses.
To apply that resulting
function to the third argument,
which finally gives us our output.
So this shape of things
of calling lots of single
argument functions in a row as it were,
is actually something that comes out
from the kind of the root of it.
Pretty much all functional programming,
which is something called
the lambda calculus.
And yes, lambda,
like that symbol that big symbol.
That is the logo of all of
the functional programming languages and
all of the functional programming
meetups that all of that stuff in
the lambda calculus,
which is a mathematical.
And kind of conceptual framework for
computing developed by Alonzo church in
the 30s, the 1930s in the lambda calculus.
It's almost like really,
really intense functional programming
where not only do you have to do
everything with pure functions.
You have to do everything with single
argument functions that can only
return a single argument value.
But what that means is that in order
to conceive of [LAUGH] kind of
the base unit that you would need to be
able to write infinitely complex programs.
All you need to define is something
called a lambda function,
which is a function that takes in
one argument and returns one value.
And with that tiny little function,
one argument in one argument out,
you can actually create
anything computable.
You can do all of computation with a tiny
little single argument pure function.
And it turns out that the lambda
calculus is essentially equivalent to
Turing machines if you've heard of that.
So you remember I threw up the words
church Turing thesis up on the board
earlier.
That's something you can look
up if you like me find this
theory of computation
stuff really fascinating.
And you wanna see how The the kind
of forefathers of computation and
church and Turing figured out two
totally different paradigms for
conceiving of anything
a computer could do.
Where the lambda calculus
is the functional one.
And that is why the lambda calculus is
something that is at the root of kind of
all of this functional computation.
If you want to know more about a little
bit of an introduction to the lambda
calculus.
There is a video link here,
which is another talk that I give
all about the lambda calculus and
the single argument functions.
which can also help you get into more of
a habit of doing things in this very weird
feeling functional style in sort
of like an extra intense way.
It's almost like going to the gym and
pumping iron.
More than trying to work a little bit
of functional programming into all
of your code.
So yes, I love the lambda calculus and
I love talking about it.
So I will talk your ear off about it now
but you can learn more about it there.